Post: enable addons by default (#308)
readthedocs/website: content/posts/addons-by-default.md

> title: Read the Docs Addons enabled by default

Reviewer: I feel like we need to lead with the build data deprecation, not Addons?

Author: Hrm, I structured the post in this way because I'd assume that most users won't know what "build data deprecation" means and if they are using it or not.

I think the news "Addons enabled by default" and "What does it means?" and "How it affect my projects?" is a better way to structure it. That's why I went this way.

Author: Also, I think that most of the users won't be directly affected by this (meaning, that it won't break their builds). I'm expecting a handful of users using the Sphinx context in a way that can hard break their docs and will require using the extension and/or contacting us to understand what happened.

Author: In this context, the _news_ is that "Addons are being enabled by default" and it will have some implicates to the build process; not the other way around.

--which was a workaround for those users wanting to skip this "behind the scenes" config manipulation,
and it also showed great success.

Another step towards this direction was the removal of [YAML manipulation](https://about.readthedocs.com/blog/2024/03/mkdocs-yaml-manipulation/) for all MkDocs projects, on Aril 2024.
Since then, all projects building with MkDocs are already using Read the Docs Addons and they haven't reported any big issues.

All of this step-by-step changes have given us the confidence to make the last step and **plan the removal of the config manipulation for Sphinx projects** as well,
which is the most used documentation tool on Read the Docs,
and that's why we left it for the end.

## Deprecation timeline

We understand this change is going to affect _all the projects_ building on Read the Docs,
so we have a timeline to make this deprecation easier for our users.
Keep these dates in mind and prepare your projects for the changes:

- **July 29, 2024**: enable Read the Docs Addons for _all **new** projects_ created.
- **October 7, 2024**: enable Read the Docs Addons for _**all projects**_.

## How does it affect my projects?

> It's worth to note there are two big different types of changes that will affect your projects:
> at build time, and visually.
> Depending on the configuration of your project, it could be affected by one, both or none of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two big different types of changes that will affect your projects:
at build time, and visually.
Depending on the configuration of your project, it could be affected by one, both or none of them.
```

### At build time changes

As we mentioned before, all the Sphinx's `conf.py` file manipulation won't happen anymore at build time.
This means that if your project were using any of these extra configuration,
those won't be available at build time anymore and some features may not work as expected,
or the build could fail completely.

In case you've found any difference in behavior after Read the Docs Addons has been enabled
(see [How to opt-in to addons _now_](#how-to-opt-in-to-addons-now) to enable addons manually),
you can try installing the [`sphinx-build-compatibility`](https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx-build-compatibility/) extension we've created
to allow keeping the "behind the scenes" manipulation behavior at build time while you can dig more on these changes and perform the migration gradually.

### Visual changes

> Even if the build has completed successfully, there may be some visual changes you noticed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if the build has completed successfully, there may be some visual changes.
```

Version and pull request notifications were completely re-designed and the flyout menu has been moved to a floating position in the bottom right,
for example.

Depending on your project's configuration, the documentation tool and the theme you are using, you will notice these differences.
We plan to release a new version of our theme to keep the flyout menu at the bottom left integrated with the navbar soon,
and we are talking to other theme authors to communicate these changes and work with them towards a better integration.
Expect news around this visual changes in the following months.

## How to opt-in to addons _now_

Read the Docs Addons is already available for all users that want to start using it on their projects.

> In case they want to prepare themselves for the migration, or make usage of the new features from Read the Docs Addons, like the [DocDiff](https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/pull-requests.html) for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case they want to prepare themselves for the migration, or make usage of the new features from Read the Docs Addons, like the [DocDiff addon](https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/pull-requests.html).
```

Read the Docs Addons is the new modular implementation of all the features Read the Docs adds on top of your documentation:
analytics, flyout menu, notifications and search, among others.

----

> _**TL;DR:**
> Read the Docs has stopped adding extra context and configuration on Sphinx builds.
> This may affect your documentation builds.
> If you are experimenting any issue with this change,
> read [How does it affect my projects?](#how-does-it-affect-my-projects) section and
> try installing [`sphinx-build-compatibility`](https://github.com/readthedocs/sphinx-build-compatibility) extension in your project to mitigate them._

----

Since Read the Docs started,

> every time it ran a build, a set of extra configuration were automatically added to make the integration easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every time it ran a build, extra configuration options were automatically added to make integration easier.
```
